

This a model from the article:  
**Prediction and validation of the distinct dynamics of transient and sustained ERK activation. **   
Sasagawa S, Ozaki Y, Fujita K, Kuroda S _Nat. Cell Biol._[2005 Apr; Volume: 7
(Issue: 4 )]: 365-73 [15793571](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15793571),  
**Abstract:**   
To elucidate the hidden dynamics of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase
(ERK) signalling networks, we developed a simulation model of ERK signalling
networks by constraining in silico dynamics based on in vivo dynamics in PC12
cells. We predicted and validated that transient ERK activation depends on
rapid increases of epidermal growth factor and nerve growth factor (NGF) but
not on their final concentrations, whereas sustained ERK activation depends on
the final concentration of NGF but not on the temporal rate of increase. These
ERK dynamics depend on Ras and Rap1 dynamics, the inactivation processes of
which are growth-factor-dependent and -independent, respectively. Therefore,
the Ras and Rap1 systems capture the temporal rate and concentration of growth
factors, and encode these distinct physical properties into transient and
sustained ERK activation, respectively.

Dynamics of active Ras, active Rap1 and phosphorylated ERK were correctly
reproduced with CellDesigner 3.0

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

